+++
title = '2023Fall'
date = 2023-12-18T22:23:26-06:00
+++

# Blog Post #2: Fall 2023 Reflections

*note: This was an assigned task for INFO 5000*
*originally submitted November 7, 2023*

# Semester Number Two: The Grind
  

I am in the midst of my second semester in UNT's MLS program. In my first semester, I took Management of Information Agencies (INFO 5300), Public Libraries (INFO 5320), and Information Access and Knowledge Inquiry (INFO 5600). That courseload, taken during the Spring 2023 semester, was enlightening regarding graduate-level preparations and submissions, big-picture considerations as far as the profession and my trajectory are concerned, and the information learned. 

  

This semester, I am enrolled full-time, in Information and Knowledge Professions (INFO 5000), Information Organization (INFO 5200), and Advanced Management of Information Agencies (INFO 5302). This semester has been quite a challenge due to multiple factors including my family commitment and needs, my workload at my day job, including overtime during summer and at the beginning of this semester, and the draining emotion derived from current events directly impacting libraries. 

  

I have been able to practice perseverance, time management, and self-care as a result of the grind. Although I enjoy my coursework, the big picture outlook with the cultural atmosphere and the dawn of the Age of AI upon society have helped me to feel like a mild existential crisis is occurring for me. However, the ability to implement concepts from this year into my day job helps to energize me and allow me to see the big picture in a realistic way, instead of a pessimistic view I am prone to taking when overwhelmed.

  

I have been able to apply my knowledge learned throughout my coursework to emphasize equity when planning and operating my library's bookmobile service, insist on a free delivery model that is not constrained to homebound users, and emphasize the importance of reliable off-site points of contact by insisting book locker issues are resolved as soon as they are discovered. Information and Knowledge Professions, the typical course all School of Information graduate students enroll, has reminded me the information sphere is larger than just my little world. It has helped me explain to ebook users at my library that licenses are what are purchased when libraries procure ebooks, and these licenses typically allow for a specified number of borrows before they expire.

  

A series of assignments in Advanced Management of Information Agencies has shown me how to critically evaluate my library's long range and marketing plan, and what I can do to help achieve my libraries objectives. It also has given me food for thought on what I think the next long-range plan should have to elevate my community and library, and I will be able to pitch my ideas when the planning process is open for feedback.

  

Information Organization is an exercise in providing the level of care and detail that should be demonstrated in metadata and information organization systems. I employ this concept at work frequently, particularly when planning circulation materials to carry on the bookmobile, planning for the *Sports Equipment Collection* that my library will soon roll out to circulate equipment to people who need it to participate, and quality checking processed matierals before circulation. I am thankful that I recieved orders from Dr. Enoch to avoid day-job collection development within the Information Organization Project, as well as his restriction to physical traditional materials like books and discs.
