+++
title = 'Professional Associations'
description = 'A listing of my professional associations, past and present'
aliases = ["section 2.2", "proascn"]
date = 2023-12-21T20:41:05-06:00
+++
# Professional Associations
## Leadership Hot Springs, Class XXXV
- I was vice-president of this class.
This was an insightful monthly program put on by the Greater Hot Springs Chamber of Commerce, and I learned extensively about various aspects of Hot Springs, AR and Garland County. Particularly, I learned about local government, state government, local economy, local health, local education, and local environment. I also obtained life-long friendships and many connections to like-minded professionals of various backgrounds.

## Association of Bookmobile and Outreach Services
- Member since 2021
I walked into the Outreach Coordinator position at Garland County Library with a mandate to creatively impact the community on GCL's behalf. ABOS has helped me tremendously, with resources and virtual conference proceedings, with developing community outreach priorities, routines, programs, as well as remote service offerings.

## Arkansas Library Association
-Member since 2023
I presented at a miniconference for ArLA, called ALPS Infobits, in which I co-presented with my then-colleague/now-authority figure Paul Kagebein, the current Adult Services Specialist. Membership in ALPS, Arkansas Library Paraprofessional Society(?), precludes a membership to ArLA. ArLA is somewhat productive, and represents an opportunity for me to have an impact on libraries throughout Arkansas.

## Public Library Association
-Member from 2021 to December 2023
PLA's 2021 Conference enabled me to take notes on various programs offered by public libraries, as well as insights about community outreach and libraries in general. This was a productive membership, but with ties to ALA, I elected to drop my continuing membership until the political environment relaxes. 

## American Library Association
-Member from 2021 to December 2023
I was a member of the ALA, which comes with a membership to PLA. The message boards were pretty active, but pretty well irrelevant to my day-to-day duties or education. If I ever renew my membership, it will be because of a deliberate renewal of PLA. It seems like ALA will have to rephrase social justice rhetoric in a manner that balances humanistic values with political operators that successfully resist such measures, up to and including defunding public libraries.
